README.md, before:

# BereanBible

Provides offline access to the [Berean Bible](https://berean.bible) in Swift.

## Features

- Offline access to the [BSB interlinear](https://interlinearbible.com) data
- Public domain and high-quality bible translation
- Developer-friendly API
- Easy integration via SPM
- Biblical Hebrew, Aramaic, and Koine Greek for each translated word
- Lexical information
- Strong's numbers
- Transliteration
- Morphology

## Interlinear Bible

The Greek source is documented for all renderings, with the following major sources being considered: Nestle, SBL, and Nestle Aland 28th Edition, Textus Receptus, Byzantine, Greek Orthodox, Tischendorf, Westcott and Hort, as well as a variety of manuscripts on which these critical texts are based.

## Notes

Use the [BSB interlinear converter](https://github.com/cbess/bsb-interlinear-converter) to create a local database. 
Because of the DB, this library will add `~70MB` in size to your app bundle. A remote DB option may be added in the future.

## Gospel of the triune God

Jesus Christ is the one true God (2nd Person of the Trinity) in the flesh, who came to save sinners (e.g., liars).  
He died on the cross and was resurrected, taking upon Himself God's wrath for those who would turn from their sin and trust in Him.  

Christ is the perfect Savior that saves by grace through faith alone.

[Soli Deo gloria](https://perfectGod.com)

Commit message:

update data and API
- database has 12-1-2024 changes
- cleanup code
- update tests, to omit punctuation
- strongs func is private, for now
- update readme

README.md, after:

# BereanBible

Provides offline access to the [Berean Bible](https://berean.bible) in Swift.

## Features

- Offline access to the [BSB interlinear](https://interlinearbible.com) data
- Public domain and high-quality bible translation
- Developer-friendly API
- Easy integration via SPM
- Biblical Hebrew, Aramaic, and Koine Greek for each translated word
- Lexical information
- Strong's numbers
- Transliteration
- Morphology

## Interlinear Bible

The Greek source is documented for all renderings, with the following major sources being considered: Nestle, SBL, and Nestle Aland 28th Edition, Textus Receptus, Byzantine, Greek Orthodox, Tischendorf, Westcott and Hort, as well as a variety of manuscripts on which these critical texts are based. [1](https://interlinearbible.com)

## Notes

- You can use the [BSB interlinear converter](https://github.com/cbess/bsb-interlinear-converter) to create a sqlite3 database. 
- Because of the DB, this library will add `~70MB` in size to your app bundle.
- No punctuation (e.g., commas, quotes, etc) is included in the BSB text.
- A remote API option may be added in the future.
- See Berean translation [change log](https://bereanbible.com/changelog.txt) for data change details

## Gospel of the triune God

Jesus Christ is the one true God (2nd Person of the Trinity) in the flesh, who came to save sinners (e.g., liars).  
He died on the cross and was resurrected, taking upon Himself God's wrath for those who would turn from their sin and trust in Him.  

Christ is the perfect Savior that saves by grace through faith alone.

[Soli Deo gloria](https://perfectGod.com)
